We're almost done with transition property but in the last video I mentioned the optional transition
timing property.
So why don't we take a closer look.
First and foremost I want to tell you that there is a lot that this particular property.
And the reason why we all going to cover a bare minimum is the simple fact that at this point in time
in my opinion that would be an overkill to spend more time on it.
The general idea behind the property is to specifically decide how the transition is gonna take place.
And just to let you know that there is a default value already of ease and that is the reason why the
property is optional.
Now what other values are we gonna have.
Well first and foremost if you are looking at the shorthand you see that the transition timing function
is going to be placed here.
So first of all going to have the property that's gonna be affected there and we're going to look how
long the transition is going to take place and then we have the transition timing function.
Now we can write it separately and during the example we're going to look at both ways but right away
I just let you know that in the shorthand this is going to be placed here.
And like I said these value is gonna be default.
And that's the reason why it's option.
And as we're looking at these values these one would be slow start then this is going to go fast and
slow and then we also have the linear.
So that would be the same speed as well as we are looking at easing and ease out.
So a slow start and slow.
And then last but not least we would have the ease in and out now like I said this is just gonna make
a little bit more sense as we're looking with an example.
And you know what I will going to do a redo the actual indexation AML.
So first of all let me get rid of these divs as well as we're going to clean up a little bit of success
because I would like to restructure it a little bit and let's say within the indexation AML I would
like to start by creating a div then there is obviously going to have a class now the default class
is going to be the first one.
So I'm going to say default and let's write maybe also the text here that I would like to create another
one.
And in general we're going to create six of them.
Now I know and this might be a little bit annoying but since I would like to show you how they would
work we're just gonna have to go along with it and we're going to copy and paste it then we're looking
at linear linear timing function.
Also we have easy in and out ease in and out or you know what.
Let's start just with these then we have these out.
And last but not least we have ease in and out.
So that would be the last.
Now all this is nice and fine and dandy but as you can see I did a little bit of extra work.
So let me get rid of this guy mean get rid of this guy and let me get rid of this guy as well as you
know and this is also an overkill.
So for some reason I decided that I'm gonna be adding way too many examples that I would want nugget.
Now that we have the H email setup.
Why don't we start with CSA.
And like I said the easy is gonna be default 1 but maybe.
Before we start looking at the actual timing properties why don't we set up the divorce.
So I'm going to say for all the divs going to be exactly the same.
We're going to have the width of I don't know 100 pixels the height is also going to be hundred pixels
so let's write height is gonna be hundred pixels then we also have an option of background.
So let's write the background blue all of them are going to look something like this we can also add
the color just so we can see the text a little bit better.
So the text right now is White.
You know what.
We also can use a little bit of margin all around.
So it's a margin it's gonna be 15 pixels.
Now we're having the margin as well as let's set up some default transition.
So I'm gonna say transition and all the properties are going to be affected.
And this is gonna take one second of time.
Now what kind of transition Mm hmm.
I don't know.
Let's do Dave hover.
So as we're hovering the div let's combine whatever we already learned about the transform.
So why don't we write transform.
So we're going to be transforming and the way we're going to transform and we're going to translate
it by let's say a hundred pixels.
And like I said by default right away you will gonna be having disease.
So if I would have right here over here is that would be the default value anyway.
So technically you wouldn't have to write now if I would one for all of them linear can just type linear
and then what's gonna happen is the transition is gonna have the same speed all throughout this transition.
So it's gonna start in the same way and the same way.
And during transition is also gonna perform the same way.
Just to let you know again we have an option of testing them out like this or we can go individually
and the way I would like to set up individually I'm going to delete the linear one just to show you.
And here you're gonna say he's gonna be targeting the actual day of that had a class of these and here
let's write the transition timing function so we can say a transition transition and timing and obviously
this is going to be impossible to find and then we're gonna be looking for let's say.
And again this is gonna be exactly the same how we would be writing this like this.
So I could have wrote it.
Transition then all then whatever two seconds any.
And again this is just to show you that these are possible options.
Since we have already set up the div here we transition of all.
And one second I'm just adding here this timing function.
But in general normally we would write something like this where we would specifically go with each
and every transition.
Now I don't want to do each and every transition for all of them because we have six of them.
So that is the reason why I'm using the shortcut where I already set up everything in a div.
So the properties all of them.
The timing is gonna be one second and then for each and every div we'll is gonna look at different property
value for its timing function.
That's all we're doing.
And as you notice there shouldn't be no difference.
So the first one is gonna be exactly the same as the second because like I said the default while value
is gonna be easy.
So if I set up these this is going to look exactly the same.
Now what our values are we're gonna have let's say we can look at linear and for the linear and we can
just copy and paste this and let's just change this to linear I'd say linear.
And the moment what's gonna happen.
Notice that there's not gonna be this slow start or slow.
This is going to take exactly the same speed as throughout the whole transition.
What else we have we have used in and out and ease in and out.
Okay.
So first class second class and third class.
So we might as well copy and paste it three times.
And this is not what I wanted to do as well was not not this is what I wanted to do.
So let me select the line so that I would one select action line and let's copy and paste it.
You know what.
Let's let's do one more time.
And here we can right away delete the real winners.
We're not gonna be selecting winners and yeah let's just name it.
He's in and I know this might be a little bit annoying but again since I would like to show you at least
a general idea behind it there's gonna be a little bit of typing and then we're going to be looking
for easing in then also we have he's out he's out as well as the value here is gonna be out he's out.
And last but not least we have reason not so easy in a not.
And there will gonna be more options for you again if you'd like to go on research should just type
in a Google.
The CEO says transition timing function and you're gonna see way more options.
But again in this case I don't feel like this is necessary for us.
Whatever we're doing right now because we can just get away with learning the simple linear he's in
her now.
And ease outlets.
So in the moment we save it.
What's gonna happen is that with linear I'm going to repeat probably for a third time.
But this is gonna be same speed ease in.
It is going to have the slow start slow and it is gonna be 40 years old.
And last but not least we have the ease in announced slow start and fast and slow it now as we're hovering
again.
The default on is gonna be exactly the same as these.
Then we have the linear one going to have the same speed easing.
It's just gonna have the slow start and the energy is going to perform normally ease out is gonna have
the slow end and then we'll have again the slow start slow wind and the fast during their transition.
Those would be the basics behind the transition timing function in the CSF.